the United Nations has called it a war
on
[Applause]
Children gaza's Health Ministry has
documented more than 15,000 of their
deaths and Aid agencies are sounding the
alarm on yet another Grim statistic the
missing children according to
humanitarian organization save the
children almost 21 1,000 miners in Gaza
have been reported missing since the
beginning of the war in October 177,000
of them are either unaccompanied or
separated from their families while at
least 4,000 are believed to be trapped
under Rubble in the aftermath of Israeli
strikes on residential buildings and
refuge centers wherever you look in Gaza
there are children they make up nearly
half of the population in the besiege
strip in the wake of unrelenting war aid
agencies say it's become more difficult
to support
them nearly 19,000 children are reported
orphaned in Gaza that has left the fate
of many miners entirely or in part in
the hands of total
strangers they warn this is increasing
the risk of abuse exploitation and
neglect and that's put a spot light on a
generation of children who have not only
lost their parents but are left alone
and unprotected in a war zone Felix
noara Al
jazer we're joined Now by khed kzar he's
the general director of the child rights
organization defense for children
International Palestine he's with us
live in rala thank you for your time sir
so the UN calling the Gaza war war on
children we know that over 15,000 of
them have been killed since the War
Began how much does this latest report
add to the growing concerns about how
this war is affecting
children uh first of all thank you very
much for sharing the this information
and of course for talking about this
very important topic uh what's happening
in gizza is unpresented before we are
working in this field for more than 30
years but what we are facing what we are
witnessing is Tres uh even uh we we we
didn't seen before even during the
second world war so yeah it is a war
against children children in Gazza are
paying the big cost the big price for
the Israeli genocide on Gazza and of
course also in the West Bank children
are also subject to uh war crimes and C
crimes against the
humanity the report highlights that some
of gaza's children have been forcibly
disappeared including an unknown number
detained and forcibly transferred out of
Gaza is that something you can shed any
light
on yes the fundamental rights of the
Palestinian children in Gaza are
violated systematically and continuously
from the
Israeli Army so this is why we are
talking about targeting children and War
on children children in Gaza is around
50% of the population as the report
mentioned so uh all the rights are
violated the right to life is not
guaranteed anymore in Gaza so the number
of the children who been killed and I'm
so sorry to talk about children in
numbers but the the number also reflect
the facts on the ground so we talk about
around 20,000 children missed in Gaza so
those who are killed it's there are
about 50% almost 50% of the killing in
Gaza and when we talk about 50 20,000
killed this means that more than 40,000
being injured and the right to to health
is not guarantee anymore right to food
right to to clean water right to housing
adequate housing all the right all the
necessity of the life
are denied for the children in Gaza and
in so what is yes apologies for
interrupting sir uh from your experience
how does war and conflict affect the
mental health of children what sort of
long-term issues are we talking about
here until now we are talking about the
right to keep Survivor to keep alive but
of course those who are live under
atrocities since more than eight months
of course psychologically they all
damaged they all affected they all need
immediate support psychological support
otherwise they will be also considered
as out
of of the
life and and tell us a bit more about
how the challeng is involved in giving
support to Children those who are left
behind those that are alive and are
vulnerable to exploitation neglect and
abuse H how do you take care of those
those
children so from my experience I believe
that the Israeli policy
is targeting children and also focusing
on how to to kill the hope for the
children so those who are left without
any family member like we are now
talking about almost 177,000 those who
been injured those who've been uh
starving and looking for a piece of food
of bread to keep survival so all of them
and those who are live
under the
Israeli BL pomping all the all the time
all the time the BL in the in the the
sky so all of them they are live under
such circumstances and of course with
this un ongoing situation
psychologically I believe that they have
been damaged and they need immediate now
nobody can give such support for the
children because they are as the
Secretary General of United Nation said
there's no place for children in Gaza
there is no means of in Gaza so the
children are of course live under such
ongoing situation while not we are
unable to give them the support that
they need in the right time but to give
the right the support okay after that it
will be too too too too late too late I
I appreciate your time khed kusar
General director of the child rights
organization defense for Children's
International Palestine speaking to us
there from
ramala make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer